<html>

<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Language" content="en-us">
<meta name="GENERATOR" content="Microsoft FrontPage 5.0">
<meta name="ProgId" content="FrontPage.Editor.Document">
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=windows-1252">
<title>ARES General Membership Meeting</title>
</head>

<body bgcolor="#3399FF">

<p align="center"><font size="5">ARES General Membership Meeting</font></p>
<p align="center"><font size="5">October 15, 2004</font></p>
<p align="center">&nbsp;</p>
<p align="left"><font size="4">On Friday October 15, 2004 a general members
meeting was called at the Pembroke Police Services building in Pembroke for 7:30
P.M.. The Friday date was selected to accommodate a visit from the ARES Ottawa
DEC Mike Hickey. The meeting was well attended, with the following
<a href="http://www.rcarc.ca/Meetings/15OCT04ATT.htm">19 members</a>
present. The meeting agenda included a review of the current status of
our 'Needs and Assessment' progress, as well as an update of our existing
agreements with surrounding municipalities. A brief was delivered by Fred
(VA3FPB) regarding status of OSARVA, and a discussion by Brodie for the upcoming
SET 2004. The Halloween patrol and Devils night patrol was discussed, as well as
the upcoming Cobden Santa Parade. The floor was turned over to Mike Hickey
(VE3IPC) our Ottawa area DEC for an introduction and talk on his views and
directions. The meeting came to a close at about 10:00 P.M. and everyone was
thanked for attending.</font></p>
<p align="left">&nbsp;</p>
<p align="left"><font size="4"><b>Existing Agreements with Surrounding
Municipalities</b>: This discussion involved an update to the general membership
to advise them that the work performed by Doug (VE3DGC) and Ed (VA3ED) and Bill
(VE3TUC) and others in the Renfrew area regarding an agreement with Horton
Township has been completed. The agreement was signed by the Renfrew County ARES
EC as well as the Reeve and Clerk of Horton Township in July of 2004. Complete
details of the agreement are available by request to the EC. I would point out
that the agreement reads very much the same as the agreement with Renfrew
County, however, a clarification on the topic of liability of ARES members was
addressed prior to signing the agreement. It was during this process of
clarification regarding liability to ARES members that the BY-LAW No. 2003-18
was introduced to ARES as a blanket coverage of liability during an emergency as
specified in the By-Law that treats ARES members as employees of the Township,
and therefore fall under the protection of the By-Law. Further discussion during
the meeting resulted in the query whether or not we required a list of ARES
members to be forwarded to the Clerk for record purposes. This is to be
investigated, and acted upon if required.</font></p>
<p align="left">&nbsp;</p>
<p align="left"><font size="4"><b>OSARVA Update: </b>Fred (VA3FPB) notified the
group that he now is a certified instructor for OSARVA and has the power to
re-certify our group as required. No further date for recertification has yet
been determined.</font></p>
<p align="left"><font size="4"><b>SET 2004: </b>Brodie (VA3BDT) addressed the
group with the progress of SET 2004. He advised us that the SET this year was
not a province wide SET, and that our intentions are to formally make a contact
with neighboring ARES groups and to verify that a route for traffic can be
determined. No official traffic will be passed. VHF and HF as well as any other
mode available will be attempted. The date for SET this year is Saturday October
23/04, with things officially kicking off at 0900 local and running until 1500
local.</font></p>
<p align="left"><font size="4"><b>Upcoming ARES Events: </b></font></p>
<p align="left"><b>Goblin Patrol</b></p>
<p align="left"><font size="4">A discussion on the Halloween Patrol, both nights
(Saturday October 30'th and Sunday October 31,2004) will progress in the usual
manner. Participants will advise Fred of their availability. Members that are
participating in the Goblin Patrol this year will assemble in the parking lot of
the Pembroke Police building at 1900 hours local both evenings. It is expected
to be a busy patrol with the fact that the activities fall on a weekend. Fred
made it known that at a recent attended meeting of the Lions club, Pembroke
Police Chief Blair MacIsaac had alot of praise for the ARES group and in
particular mentioned that the ARES Goblin patrol was a big help to the
protection of people and property.</font></p>
<p align="left"><font size="4">Cobden Santa Parade:</font></p>
<p align="left"><font size="4">Jamie (VA3JRC) indicated that amateurs are once
again asked to assist with the upcoming Santa Parade in Cobden Ontario. The date
this year is November 27,2004 at 2:30 P.M. local. Jamie also presented the group
with a thank you letter from the Cobden Santa Claus Parade Committee thanking
members for their contribution in the past years. Members assist with crowd
control and the overall safety and flow of the parade.</font></p>
<p align="left"><font size="4"><b>Guest Visitor and Speaker: </b>Mike Hickey
(VE3IPC) gave a prepared speech covering his background and his current status
as the Ottawa District Emergency Coordinator. Mike included an overview of his
duties as well as his intention in the future. Mike will be paying special
regards to the intercommunications and capabilities of the ARES groups that fall
under his watch. This includes Renfrew County, Ottawa, and Prescott Russell. A
concerted effort will be made to keep the EC's of each respective area in touch
with each other. Mike is also hoping to see a Packet network that can be
utilized for communications between the groups, leading eventually to a province
wide network. Mike is planning a meeting (date to be announced) sometime in
February in Ottawa that will include all of the EC's and AEC's of the district.
This will be an opportunity for each district to share with others their
individual status and methods with their communities. Mike also indicated that
he will work toward the goal of a continued and strong ARES presence in the
district.</font></p>
<p align="left"><font size="4">
<a href="http://www.rcarc.ca/Meetings/15OCT04ATT.htm">Attendance</a></font></p>
<p align="center">
<a target="_top" href="http://www.rcarc.ca/index.shtml">(Home)<font size="4">
</font></a></p>
<p align="left">&nbsp;</p>

</body>

</html>