<html>

<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Language" content="en-us">
<meta name="GENERATOR" content="Microsoft FrontPage 5.0">
<meta name="ProgId" content="FrontPage.Editor.Document">
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=windows-1252">
<title>ARES AEC MEETING</title>
</head>

<body bgcolor="#FFFFCC">

<p align="center"><font size="4"><b>ARES AEC MEETING</b></font></p>
<p align="center"><font size="4"><b>Needs and Assessment (Con't)</b></font></p>
<p align="left"><b>April 28, 2004 - (1900 ~ 2100 hrs EST)</b></p>
<p align="left"><b>Meeting Location: Pembroke (Joe Street)</b></p>
<p align="left"><b>Attendance: VE3PL, VE3GQW, VA3FPB, VA3SUR, VA3AJT, VE3DGC</b></p>
<p align="left"><b>Regrets: VA3ED</b></p>
<p align="left">&nbsp;</p>
<p align="left"><b>This meeting with the Renfrew County ARES Assistant Emergency 
Coordinators (AEC's) was called to further develop the Needs and Assessment 
portion of the Renfrew County ARES group. The general thrust of this meeting was 
to define a course of action that could be taken to deal with the questions of 
the Needs and Assessment file, specifically the 'Needs of the Community' 
section. Our goal during this meeting was to find a way to either satisfy the 
questions, or lay-out a path that would lead us to find the answers to the 
questions.</b></p>
<p align="left"><b>The following is an outline of the discussions based on the 
questions posed during the previous general membership ARES meeting. For the 
purpose of this report, I will first indicate the question, followed by the 
discussion that ensued during the AEC meeting.</b></p>
<p align="left">&nbsp;</p>
<p align="left"><b>ITEM #1: <font size="4">Are we aware of the likelihood of the 
potential disasters in our communities?</font></b></p>
<p align="left"><b>Intro: <i><font size="4">My goal here is to highlight the 
possibility of an emergency facing our respective communities, or our County as 
a whole. What, if any, past studies have been completed and what is the highest 
risk scenario according to those studies?</font></i></b></p>
<p align="left"><b>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; 
During the discussion regarding this question, it was agreed that those 
Municipalities that had completed their own Emergency Plan would have already 
discussed the potential for disasters. It was then obvious that access to this 
information was crucial in order for our ARES group to effectively assess&nbsp; 
our abilities to respond. For those Municipalities that have not as of yet 
completed their Emergency Plan, where we currently have an assigned AEC or ARES 
representative sitting with the Emergency Planning Committee, our member will be 
responsible for reporting the findings of the emergency likelihood back to the 
ARES group to allow us to assess our position. For those Municipalities that 
have not as of yet prepared an Emergency Plan, or have not contacted our group, 
our position will be to be prepared for the eventual contact, and attempt to 
accommodate the requesting party at that time.</b></p>
<p align="left">&nbsp;</p>
<p align="left"><b>ITEM #2: <font size="4">Can we define what the disasters are 
likely to be?</font></b></p>
<p align="left"><b>Intro: <i><font size="4">If we are aware of the highest risks 
in our communities, then we can sway our resources into a given direction, while 
maintaining an open mind to the unknown. Can we label any of the high risk 
areas, or define where to find this information.</font></i></b></p>
<p align="left"><b><font size="4">&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
</font>As stated above, the Municipalities that have completed their Emergency 
Plan would have the information regarding their own local concerns. It would be 
our job to ensure that we are in the position to respond to those identified 
possibilities. This would include ensuring that communications would be 
possible, and in some cases, antennae installed in preparation for emergency 
communications from identified buildings that would be used as shelters and 
emergency operations. </b></p>
<p align="left">&nbsp;</p>
<p align="left"><b>ITEM #3: <font size="4">Are we aware of what our community 
leaders expect of us?</font></b></p>
<p align="left"><b>Intro: <i><font size="4">Let's resolve a manner in which all 
members can be clear on what our role is. Perhaps a defined mission statement or 
review of our Agreement with the County.</font></i></b></p>
<p align="left"><b>In the case of existing agreements, a review will be done to 
assess if there are areas that should be further clarified or modified. There 
remains the possibility that there may need to be additions to the agreement as 
well. In the case of the Municipalities that are currently working on drafting 
an agreement with ARES, the review of the County Agreement will serve to allow 
an updated agreement to be written and put in place. Bernie has agreed to review 
the existing agreement, and bring his findings forward for further discussions. 
It was also discussed that our general membership needs to be informed and 
trained in the areas that ARES has agreed to undertake.</b></p>
<p align="left">&nbsp;</p>
<p align="left"><b>ITEM #4: <font size="4">Can we be deployed to deal with 
massive loss of power and communications and successfully set up a network 
and/or count on our existing infrastructure to handle our defined tasks?</font></b></p>
<p align="left"><b>Intro: <i><font size="4">Where are our resources now? Can we 
coordinate those resources with other emergency services? Are the current 
resources adequate, or do we need to add more. How can we best maintain the 
current resources? (i.e.: assign someone to check on the condition of the 
resources and do light maintenance.) Can we put together an inventory of 
existing resources?</font></i></b></p>
<p align="left"><b>This lead to the discussion of the current infra-structure 
that ARES has in place. At this time, a list was prepared identifying the 
following locations that currently have antenna installations and in some cases 
additional radio equipment in an emergency box. The list included the following:</b></p>
<table border="0" cellpadding="0" cellspacing="0" style="border-collapse: collapse" bordercolor="#111111" width="100%" id="AutoNumber1">
  <tr>
    <td width="100%"><b>Pembroke Police Services Building</b></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td width="100%"><b>Pembroke Fire Department</b></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td width="100%"><b>Algonquin College, Pembroke Campus</b></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td width="100%"><b>Champlain Discovery School</b></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td width="100%"><b>Fellows High School</b></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td width="100%"><b>Bishop Smith Catholic High School</b></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td width="100%"><b>County of Renfrew Building</b></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td width="100%"><b>Laurention Public School </b></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td width="100%"><b>Red Cross Building - Pembroke</b></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td width="100%"><b>Renfrew Victoria Hospital</b></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td width="100%"><b>Point Alexander Municipal Building</b></td>
  </tr>
</table>
<p align="left"><b>A quick review of the installations indicated that most of 
this hardware had not been inspected for some time. It was brought to the table 
that an active ARES member (VA3JRC) indicated that he would be interested in 
checking the condition of these installations. Bob and Fred agreed to clarify 
the access location of the antenna and coax for the installations that they were 
familiar with. Bob suggested that Jamie would probably not need to travel to 
Point Alexander to check on that equipment, seeing as Bob resided in the area. I 
suspect that during follow-up we will initiate a plan that would see the 
existing equipment checked on a regular bases.</b></p>
<p align="left"><b>It was also noted that additional resources should be 
considered. A portable repeater would be a definite asset. The possibility of 
requesting assistance from the County regarding the purchasing of radio 
equipment was discussed. It should also be noted here that until we are aware of 
the areas of concern within the Municipalities we may not be totally aware of 
our requirements.</b></p>
<p align="left">&nbsp;</p>
<p align="left"><b>ITEM #5: <font size="4">Do we have a clear understanding of 
our roles when petitioned by a group within the community to assist with public 
functions?</font></b></p>
<p align="left"><b>Intro: <i><font size="4">Should we create some guidelines to 
follow? How do we go about preparing those guidelines? How do we best distribute 
those guidelines? Can we make the guidelines available to those requesting our 
assistance for community activities?</font></i></b></p>
<p align="left"><b>A quick discussion on this matter leaned toward the idea of 
dealing with the requests for our assistance from organizations&nbsp; on an 
individual basis. A discussion of the request would be held by the AEC's and a 
decision made as to whether it would be in the best interest of ARES and the 
community for us to assist. </b></p>
<p align="left"><b>&nbsp;Further discussion on this topic lead to the formation 
of several guidelines that the group could use to assist with the decision. They 
are listed below.</b></p>
<table border="0" cellpadding="0" cellspacing="0" style="border-collapse: collapse" bordercolor="#111111" width="100%" id="AutoNumber2">
  <tr>
    <td width="100%"><b>Does the request to assist with the function fall under 
    the heading 'Community Services'?</b></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td width="100%"><b>Would the request allow our members to use our 
    participation as a useful training exercise?</b></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td width="100%"><b>Would those members of our group participating be safe?</b></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td width="100%"><b>Do we have the required skills to perform the task 
    requested of us?</b></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td width="100%"><b>Will our members be interested in participating?</b></td>
  </tr>
</table>
<p align="left"><b>&nbsp;</b></p>
<p align="left">&nbsp;</p>
<p align="left"><b>ITEM #6: <font size="4">Do we understand the risks and 
potential liabilities imposed upon us by the community during a given function?</font></b></p>
<p align="left"><b>Intro: <i><font size="4">Are we prepared and qualified for 
the task at hand? Are we putting ourselves at risk? What are the governing 
factors to decide our safety? (i.e.: Pierce-Neige Car Rally). How can we 
minimize the risk?</font></i></b></p>
<p align="left"><b>Qualifications for the task at hand will vary greatly 
depending on the task. It will be important to understand the abilities of our 
members, and place them into positions that they are capable of handling. In 
order to meet with the requested tasks, it will be necessary to train our 
members in various areas. It is obvious that not all members would be interested 
in all areas of concern. Some would be more apt to be involved with Search and 
Rescue activities, and others would be more prone to be involved in traffic 
handling and related issues. This indicates the requirement for different 
exercises to allow for training in different areas. Some of the upcoming 
exercises were discussed, including Paddle Quest, SET2004, and Goblin Patrol.
</b></p>
<p align="left"><b>Coordination of exercises were discussed, and the idea of a 
revolving coordinator was talked about, This would allow for various activities 
in various areas to be coordinated by different coordinators based on either a 
calendar schedule, or possibly be left to the requests made by community groups 
for our assistance.</b></p>
<p align="left"><b>The safety issue reference was brought forward, and as 
example, the car rally in particular was discussed as being a situation where 
even though our members had the skills to do the requested job, it was 
determined that the organizers of the activity failed to put in place specific 
safety measures to protect either our members or the general public. The example 
made reference to the situation where ARES members assisted with the 
communications at Riverside Park in Pembroke. The members where alerted via 
radio that a given race car would be approaching a given area on the track, and 
our members were expected to ensure that the track was clear and no members of 
the public would be placed in danger. This proved to be an impossible task, 
seeing as the organizers of the event refused to consider placing barricades 
along the route to keep the crowd back. They indicated that the placement of 
barriers would infer a liability on their part. We found that the general public 
would cross the path of the race cars freely in an attempt to get to the other 
side of the track. As EC, I felt that the whole situation was very poorly 
organized from a safety point, and withdrew the ARES resources from the activity 
for future events.</b></p>
<p align="left"><b>This pointed to the fact that aside from proper training, 
safety issues needed to be investigated on an individual event basis.</b></p>
<p align="left">&nbsp;</p>
<p align="left"><b>ITEM #7: <font size="4">Are we capable of assisting other 
communities with their emergencies, and if so what costs are we likely to incur?</font></b></p>
<p align="left"><b>Intro: <i><font size="4">Costs could include travel, possible 
lodging, food, and perhaps clothing. Are we prepared to leave our family behind? 
Are they secured prior to our departure?</font></i></b></p>
<p align="left"><b>The discussion on this question involved several issues. It 
was pointed out that contrary to some approaches used in emergencies involving 
working from the top down,&nbsp; recently more weight has been put on the idea 
of working the response to assisting with an emergency from the bottom up. This 
implied that those that were responding to assist with an emergency have taken 
the time to ensure the safety of both their family and themselves. Readiness of 
our members is another concern. It was suggested that we use our training 
exercises to check that our ready bags were in fact complete and ready to be 
employed on short notice. Reminders should be passed on to the members, possibly 
via our weekly net, to check the status of our ready bags. Possibly a lecture 
could be arranged to inform our members the importance of these issues at a 
general members meeting.</b></p>
<p align="left">&nbsp;</p>
<p align="left"><b>ITEM #8:<font size="4"> Is there a defined&nbsp; memorandum 
of understanding (MOU) which we can refer to when called upon to assist with an 
emergency?</font></b></p>
<p align="left"><b>Intro: <i><font size="4">What areas if any in the current 
Agreement with the County needs revision? Should we have an MOU with each 
municipality that wishes to use ARES in time of emergency?</font></i></b></p>
<p align="left"><b>Because this question dealt very closely with Item #3, it was 
presumed dealt with during the dealings of Item #3.</b></p>
<p align="left">&nbsp;</p>
<p align="left"><b>ITEM #9: <font size="4">Can we communicate beyond the borders 
of our County effectively during an emergency?</font></b></p>
<p align="left"><b>Intro: <i><font size="4">Emergency communications beyond our 
County will take some coordination to be effective and immediately available 
when required. How can we best achieve this?</font></i></b></p>
<p align="left"><b>Correspondence between our neighboring ARES groups and 
ourselves would need to be carried out in order to effectively integrate our 
communication abilities with our neighbors. The vehicle in which to test our 
abilities would be the exercises that encompass communications beyond our County 
borders. This would include such activities as the annual Simulated Emergency 
Training (SET) exercise and our involvement with Field Day. </b></p>
<p align="left"><b>A follow up with our counterparts in Ottawa will be 
undertaken to bring them up to date with our current abilities with Packet. 
There was some discussion about Ottawa considering a gateway that would allow 
our Packet frequency to integrate with their frequency.</b></p>
<p align="left">&nbsp;</p>
<p align="left"><b>ITEM #10: <font size="4">What other concerns might we need to 
address when talking about public assistance?</font></b></p>
<p align="left"><b>Intro: <i><font size="4">List other areas of concern.</font></i></b></p>
<p align="left"><b>The idea that we should be presenting the general members 
with an update of upcoming events in order to maintain morale was discussed. It 
was thought that too much time spent on administrative issues would lead to a 
loss of interest by the members. </b></p>
<p align="left">&nbsp;</p>
<p align="left"><font size="4"><b>In closing, the tentative date of May 26'th 
2004 was discussed for the next general membership meeting to be held for the 
Renfrew County ARES group.</b></font></p>
<p align="left"><font size="4"><b>As EC, I would like to thank the attending 
members for their input and effort in maintaining an effective ARES group in 
Renfrew County.</b></font></p>
<p align="left">&nbsp;</p>
<p align="left">&nbsp;</p>
<p align="left">&nbsp;</p>
<p align="left">&nbsp;</p>
<p align="left">&nbsp;</p>
<p align="left">&nbsp;</p>
<p align="left">&nbsp;</p>
<p align="left"><b>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
</b></p>
<p align="left"><b>&nbsp;</b></p>
<p align="left">&nbsp;</p>
<p align="left">&nbsp;</p>
<p align="left">&nbsp;</p>

</body>

</html>
